We are joined now by the State Department's Undersecretary
for Political Affairs, Victoria Nuland.
She was also ambassador to NATO under the second Bush
administration.
So she knows this subject area very well.
Ambassador Nuland, thank you for joining us.
I want to get to that first question about the direction
of the crisis.
Is it escalating or de-escalating?
What's the latest?
Tony, even though President Putin
is claiming he's withdrawing, our concern
is that the troops that matter, those that are ringing Ukraine
to the north, to the east, and to the south
are actually increasing their readiness.
So he is maintaining every option
to go in at a time of his choosing.
So it sounds like from your perspective,
we're still in a crisis or escalation phase of this,
not de-escalation.
There was a cyber attack on the Ukrainian army and two banks
in the country yesterday.
Is it the belief of the US government
that that was Putin laying the groundwork potentially
for a broader assault?
Well, we're still investigating and doing
forensics, along with the Ukrainians.
I think what's most important is that these cyber attacks were
not very successful.
Both the Ministry of Defense and the banks
were able to reestablish in real time.
And that is a direct result of the hard work
that the Ukrainians have been doing with our help
to make themselves resilient.
But who is best at this?
Who uses this weapon all around the world?
Obviously, the Kremlin.
Ambassador, we cover this story every day.
We have for weeks now.
But for the average Americans sitting
at home who wants to understand why this former Soviet Republic
halfway around the world seems to be
so important to the current administration, what do
you say to them?
What I say to them is if an authoritarian leader anywhere
in the world is able to invade their neighbor
and take them over by force and deny them sovereignty,
then this won't end at Ukraine.
It'll happen all around the world.
China is watching vis-a-vis Taiwan.
Iran is watching.
North Korea is watching.
So we have to maintain UN principles of international law
that protect the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of every single country,
notably including Ukraine.
That is the front line of the democracies
versus the autocracies competition at this moment.
Ambassador, President Putin's goal here,
to the best we can understand it,
is to limit the encroachment of NATO
on Russia's border, so the eastern expansion of NATO.
Why is it so important for NATO to continue
to move in that direction?
And is it your concern that Putin could take Ukraine today,
but then move to rebuild, essentially, the former Soviet
Union in the future?
Tony, NATO is a defensive alliance.
Its purpose since its founding in 1949
is to protect the security of its members.
So if you are not coming for us, we are not coming for you.
And, in fact, NATO never even had any forces
on its eastern edge, in Poland or the Baltic states,
until after Russia took Crimea and invaded Eastern Ukraine.
So this is a conflict of Russia's own making.
Ambassador, I know that the US government does not
want to detail what the sanctions will
be against Putin and Russia if there is an invasion.
However, I am curious to know why
you are confident sanctions will work
or could work in this scenario, given they have not been
successful in prior conflicts.
I'm thinking of Crimea.
Tony, what we are preparing this time with the European Union
and other allies and partners around the world, including
the UK and Canada, will be absolutely crushing financially
for Russia and in terms of Russia's ability
to grow its economy and modernize going forward.
So not only will this be a bloody awful conflict
for Ukraine and for the Russian people,
it will also throw Russia back into isolation
for a very, very long time.
You asked me a question about rebuilding the Soviet Union.
This is the concern, that Putin has a revanchist fantasy
about rebuilding the former Soviet Union,
whether it starts with Ukraine, it includes Belarus.
It could go as far as Moldova.
And that will throw not only Europe, but the world
back into a Cold War posture.
And that's what we're trying to prevent.
And that's why we want to see diplomacy succeed here
and why we're continuing to press that
with Putin and with everybody else on the Russian side.
And to avoid, as you put it, a "bloody, awful conflict."
Ambassador Nuland, thank you.
Thank you, Tony.
All right.